# AI Chess player
# Nicholas Yukio Menezes Sugimoto
# Beginning: 04 October 2023

This program combines many techniques such as minimax with pruning to create an AI chess player.

The code is still incomplete and undergoing many changes.

# main.py: This was made to test the player

The file main.py implements a game loop in which two AI players play until the game is ended. 

# api.py: This implements the API

The file api.py implements the API script, so the code can be called by HTTP requests.

Chess board position system:

  | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 |

0 | R | H | B | Q | K | B | H | R | 

1 | P | P | P | P | P | P | P | P | 

2 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | 

3 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | 

4 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | 

5 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | 

6 | p | p | p | p | p | p | p | p | 

7 | r | h | b | q | k | b | h | r | 

In API requests, the moves have the following format:

[i, j, i_new, j_new]

So if you want to move the right-hand side horse (knight) of the LOWER player, you have two options:

[7, 6, 5, 5] and [7, 6, 5, 7]

In the files request_bodies_for_text you can see some examples of request bodies you can use to make the POST request with the /play/ endpoint.

# Information about other files

In the file agent.py, the class mind is defined with an initial chess board that can be used to implement different chess players.

In the file arbiter.py, the class arbiter is defined inheriting the properties of the class mind. The class arbiter is intended to be used in code designed to implement check and checkmate verifications, as well as making the valid moves in the official chess board of the game.

The file random_player.py creates a dumb machine player that selects a move randomly among the possible moves in the turn.

The following files were moved to old_ml folder, and they consist of tests used in the past and kept for possible future uses in the project:

    train_neural_network.py: was used to train a artificial neural network that predicts the score of a move.

    test_minimax.py: was used to test the minimax algorithm with pruning, defined in the agent.py file.

    learn_valid_moves.py: contains code that tries to learn the valid moves of a game based on a batch of moves and games generated by the computer itself.
    
# Commands to run in the remote server (reminder)
git pull origin main
source .venv/bin/activate
nohup uvicorn api:app --ssl-keyfile privkey.pem --ssl-certfile fullchain.pem--reload &
